So now that we've
talked about how
to visualize the behavior in
the parallel ImageStreamGang
program, let's talk
about how to implement
the behaviors with Java.
So this will actually take
a look at the real code.
And as always, all the code
is available on my website
in the ImageStreamGang folder
in the GitHub repository.
So we're going to focus on
this kind of step at a time,
and the main entry
point into this program,
as is always the case with
the StreamGang examples,
is the processStream()
hook method.
So this is just good old
template method pattern.
So we have processStream().
That's what is inherited from
the StreamGang superclass,
and we implement that superclass
processStream() method here
in the subclass, which is
called ImageStreamParallel.
The first thing that happens
is we get a list of your URLs,
and the getInput() method
is defined by the underlying
StreamGang framework, so you
can see that getInput() will go
ahead and return a list of
URLs from wherever that comes.
It can come from
different locations--
the user input, from
a dialog, from a file,
from a precompiled array that's
used for testing purposes--
those are all different
locations that we use in order
to get the input.
But from wherever
the input comes from,
we've got our list of URLs.
At this point, we
convert that list of URLs
into a parallel stream of URLs.
So that's pretty easy.
That's just our good friend,
the parallelStream() factory
method.
So notice we've talked
about hook method,
we talked about factory method.
Those are good old Gang
of Four design patterns
that you hopefully know
and love by this point.
The next thing we do is we go
ahead and connect together,
in a fluent programming
style, the stream of URLs
into the filter()
intermediate operation.
And what filter() does is it
will take in the input stream
of your URLs and then return
an output stream that consists
of the URLs in the input stream
that are not already cached.
And as you'll see, but
we'll talk about this later,
is it does this in
a very clever way.
Keep in mind that filter()
is one of those intermediate
operations that has to look at
all the elements in the stream,
but it can return a different
number than the input stream.
So the output stream
size may be smaller
than the input stream size.
And it will be smaller if
we find any cached images.
That's basically the
semantics of a filter(),
even though it still has to look
at every element in the stream.
Here is a little snippet showing
sort of how the urlCached()
method is defined.
As you can see, it takes
a URL, and it goes ahead
and does some other
cool Streams processing
to check to see if we've
already downloaded an image
and had filters applied
to it, and then store
that image in the
filesystem under the name
that we used to encode the
filter type into the filename.
So you can see it's going to
create a stream of filters
and it's then going
to go ahead and check
to see if the count
of all this stuff
is greater than 0, which means
it's already been downloaded.
There's a helper
method here that's
also given the somewhat
confusing name urlCached, just
a different version.
This takes a URL and a
filename, and it actually
goes and checks to see
if a file with that name
already exists in
the filesystem.
And if it does exist,
it means we've already
downloaded this image from
before, so we're going
to ignore it, in that case.
There are clearly better ways
of implementing an image cache.
Probably a better
way to do this would
be to use the cache aged
field in an HTTP header
and put in some clever
logic so if the image has
been downloaded and cached,
but its cache age has expired,
it's max age has expired, we can
go ahead and download the image
again.
That's left as an exercise for
the programmer, for the reader.
So if you want to get inspired
and add those features,
please feel free to do so.
But for this simple
example, I just
wanted to demonstrate caching.
And the reason I wanted to
demonstrate caching was I
wanted to demonstrate
the filter() intermediate
operation, which will get rid
of images that have already been
cached, so that's
really why it's here.
OK.
So now we're going to end up
with an output stream, which
is a stream of noncached URLs.
What we're going to do now is
we're going to apply the map()
intermediate operation, passing
in the blockingDownload method
reference.
And what that's going to
do is that will basically
download the image
at a given URL,
and it it'll do all
these things in parallel.
And it'll do all the URLs
that come through to the map()
intermediate operation, and
it will do all those downloads
synchronously--
the threads will block until
they're finished downloading--
and we'll end up with
an output stream that
consists of the images that
were downloaded from the URLs
in the input stream.
So when map()
returns, if you will,
then there'll be a stream of
downloaded images that flow out
of it.
Keep in mind that map()
always has to have the number
of output stream elements match
the number of input stream
elements.
So if we had 12 images
we're downloading
and 12 URLs that
came in, we'll have
12 images that are coming
out-- unless, of course,
some exception is thrown.
Here is how
blockingDownload() works.
This is kind of cool.
We're going to use
a little helper
class, which I'll talk about
further in a later lesson.
This will be talked in
more detail in the lesson
from the upcoming
ForkJoinPool material.
And it's going to use this
thing called BlockingTask.cal
lInManagedBlocker().
And what this does is this goes
ahead and downloads the content
from a URL and converts
it into an image.
And if you take a look at
this particular method, which
is shown in this upcoming
video on the Java ForkJoinPool,
it uses a managed
blocker in order
to ensure that there are
enough threads in the common
ForkJoinPool to keep things from
unnecessarily underutilizing
the available cores
on the processor.
So this goes back
to the point we
made when we talked
about parallel streams
and I mentioned how
you need to be careful
that you don't end up
having too few threads
in the common ForkJoinPool.
And this BlockingTask.cal
lInManagedBlocker() method will
ensure that that doesn't happen.
So it'll actually go ahead and
add those threads, as needed.
And we'll take a
look at that when
we get a little further along
into the discussion of Java
ForkJoinPool.
But for now, just
pretend like magic things
happen to ensure there
are enough threads.
The actual workhorse method
is called downloadImage().
It takes a URL and it downloads
it, and it'll return an image.
And keeping in mind about how
you should think about how many
threads are in your pool, as
we've talked about in other
contexts, I/O-bound tasks on an
N-core CPU typically run best
when you have N times 1
plus WT over ST threads,
where WT is the wait time
and ST is the service time.
And all this is really saying--
you can learn more about it
at that link down below--
is that if you have
threads that block,
you're going to
need more of them.
If you have
operations that block,
you need more threads
in order to be
able to keep the CPU more
effectively utilized.
So what we'll have now,
when map() returns,
will be an input stream of
downloaded image objects.
So it'll be coming in
as a stream of images.
And we send those
off to flatMap(),
and flatMap() then goes ahead
and applies this applyFilters
method reference, and that will
apply a list of filters to each
downloaded image.
And then it will go ahead
and store those transformed
images in the filesystem.
And what flatMap() does is it
returns all the transformed
images.
So if you came in with
10 images, for example,
and you had three
filters per image,
then you'd end up with 30
transformed and stored images
coming out of flatMap().
So that's an example where
flatMap() will return more
elements than it gets in.
So keep in mind that flatMap()
is this very cool method that
can return less
than, greater than,
or equal to the number of
elements in its output stream
than it got in its input stream.
Here's the
applyFilters() method.
As you can see here, what
applyFilters() is going to do
is it's going to apply all the
filters to an image in parallel
and it'll store
them on the device.
And what it does is it
keeps a list of filters.
It turns that list of
filters into a stream.
And then for each
filter in the stream,
it goes ahead and
combines that filter
on the image that we just
downloaded, and it runs that,
and that goes ahead and does
the image processing, the image
filtering, transforms the
image, and then stores it.
And under the hood,
this mechanism
uses the decorator pattern
that we talked about before
in a very cool way.
And I guess I should have
noted earlier, of course,
that the whole pipeline is
the pipes and filters pattern.
We see, in this
particular case, that we
have a pool of threads, which
is the common ForkJoinPool.
That's the resource
pool pattern.
And so on and so forth.
So there's just
patterns galore here.
The final stage in this
pipeline is, of course,
the collect() terminal operation
that will combine everything
into one result, triggering
the intermediate operation
processing, and we'll end up
with a list of filtered images
as the final result here.
So then we'll just go
ahead and print this out,
just for kicks,
just to do something
with it, so you
know that everything
was downloaded correctly.
And later stages
in the program then
would go ahead and display them
if you wanted to display them.